and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com if you haven't done so
yet check out my weekly email where i'm
sharing actual web and marketing tips
useful podcasts free resources and much
much more you can try it out over at
businessgrowth.email and start your
monday start your week off with a bang
[Music]
so today i'm joined by kyle lacey carl
is the svp of marketing over at seismic
he's written three books and he's a
seasoned b2b tech marketer kyle welcome
to the show sir how you doing ah thank
you for having me it's a pleasure
no worries dude looking forward to it so
we're going to be chatting
all around why marketers
should be bonus when it comes to revenue
when it comes to pipeline and a whole
bunch of other things
but let's not beat around the bushes as
we'd like to let's get stuck straight
into the topic
what do you feel kyle from 2022 and
onwards marketers
really need to be responsible for right
now
yeah i i think there's two main things
and the first thing
is build brand authority
and i i think we need to dive a little
bit into what it means to build a brand
because when i say brand i don't mean
logo i don't mean the website i mean the
culture of the company
the customer base um as well as the
community in the category creation right
all that stuff kind of kind of
blends together to form brand the second
thing which i which i heard from a why
cmo named david who's the cmo klorna
make it easier to buy the products
okay like the two things for marketing
build a brand that's worth something
which includes culture which includes
internal teams and your customer base
and the second one is is what we're
going to talk about
which is just make it easier to buy the
product and drive revenue
love both those topics well let's start
from the top sir let's let's talk about
building brand authority so as you say i
mean we've had brand experts and
everyone i always feel that everyone's
definition of brand is a bit different
so i'd be curious to know what your idea
of brand authority means first and
foremost i mean it's perception right
but i think that we ignore some key
stakeholders in that building of
perception and the two key ones
are your internal team is number one
right i think a lot of times marketers
think about brand and they think about
category creation the customer base and
fail to realize that
your your employee base has to believe
in this identity before anybody else
because if they don't the customers sure
as hell won't and if the customers don't
the market won't right so
number one is your internal team and and
and also you know your best sales people
are your customers
and if they're not involved in the brand
then you're missing out so i think it's
the perception that people have of what
you do and what your product does and
it's the community around that
perception and and and making sure that
as a marketer you're driving a
meaningful conversation there
yeah so starting with your own team your
staff your employees yeah they got to
believe in it they got to believe in the
story they got to believe in the mission
and the vision and the values and and
um there's way there's different ways to
build that out but if they if they don't
believe in the identity then you've got
some problems and and then you know of
course then the other side of that from
a great brand is creative right like the
identity mark the
logo
messaging positioning
uh creating a great experience on the
website like all that stuff
yeah all part of the brand
are there any it's not something we've
talked about that much actually are any
good examples or any good ways that
you've done with teams that you've
worked with carl in terms of really
getting internal employees staff on on
board when it comes to the brand itself
yeah i can give you two examples that
i've experienced one was that exact
target but this was back in 2012 email
marketing platform we ipoded we were
bought by salesforce but a lot of it was
because of what was called an orange
culture of course logo was orange
it was built the key there though was it
was built in the onboarding experience
like you would you spent a week with new
employees and it was an orange
onboarding experience
and because of that you had a cohort of
people that understood what it meant to
join the company in a specific time and
you also understood what the values were
for the company because they were built
directly into the onboarding the second
example is lessonly which i was at
before seismic where our ceo wrote a
book called do better work the mission
statement for lesson league was we help
people do better work so they can live
better lives he wrote a book about do
better work and we handed that book to
everyone
new employees
every chapter was about a value that
lesson we had and as well as our
customer base and what happened was
which is really interesting
is that prospects
of big companies would ask our ceo to go
speak about doing better work and it had
nothing to do with the product
but the conversation you know it's not
like we didn't talk about the product
after that right but it so those are the
two examples where
most of it you either you either create
content around who you are
or you build it in the onboarding
process for new employees
gotcha gotcha
so in terms of building up brand
authority and in terms of
kind of taking it taking products
services to market
um you mentioned things like category
creation
and all that good stuff so perhaps we
can get into some actual examples of
either what you're doing as part of your
teams or what you feel actually works
right now when it comes to ramping up
brand
yeah well i mean i i have a very i have
a love-hate relationship with category
creation because i think too many people
start category creation too early you've
got to find you got to have product
market fit number one you got to be
generating revenue number two and you've
got to have customers that really care
about what you do
a lot of times businesses try to create
a category too early because they want
to form something and they have a fomo
of something who knows and it just
doesn't work i mean great examples are
gain sight with customer success i'd
also throw seismic where i'm at now
where we pretty much created the sales
enablement category a decade ago
and we have built that up steadily and
the key is and but at lessonly we failed
miserably multiple times to create a
category and because we lived in so many
different parts of the org of our
customer base it was really hard for us
to like hone down on a specific category
that we needed to talk about
like learning automation didn't work
like
training coaching software didn't work
we finally landed on sales readiness and
then we're acquired by seismic but it's
very you do not have to create a
category to have a brand i want to make
that very very clear
i think it's not an easy thing right is
it no it's not quick either it's
impossible it's almost impossible to do
like we the people that you can call out
like exact target with email marketing
marketo with marketing automation
gainsight with with customer success
seismic with enablement it took
a long time
and your customer base just like the
brand side of it and category is part of
it they have to believe in it
and you know anthony
kanata from gainsight would say that you
started seeing job titles change
when job titles change where people
become customer success
um where you build customer success
teams when we see enablement as a job
title go up like that's when you that's
when you've you've truly created a
community around a category but most of
the time people can't do it and maybe
you shouldn't you can still win if you
don't create a category
sure sure and i yeah i agree with a lot
of that and
i guess it also depends on the size of
your organization the budget you've got
to ramp behind it
and all these other factors in terms
what you can actually put into it from
physical resources
um because if you haven't got all those
behind you it's gonna be a heck of an
uphill struggle
so i like to do something a little bit
different kyle so perhaps we could
walk through
almost like let's say for example sake
we're a b to b tech maybe b2b sas
company we're fairly new we're going to
market and we want to ramp up our brand
authority game we want to start to
become known to our ideal clients for
what we do is there like a step by step
of the first few things that we should
lay out
i think it's a it's a lot of it's around
content creation i think that
you
uh telling your customers story it's
probably the most important part if you
have product market fit if you have a
repeatable customer
you know getting them on video getting
them to tell their story getting them to
share their own stories about how they
use the product i think it's the first
step
um
testimonial review videos and that kind
of stuff yeah yeah it could be anything
it could be it could be just what are
they what are their challenges and it
has it doesn't necessarily have to do
with the product that you're selling
it's like what what are you dealing with
on a daily basis that that your peer
group could help with or whatever like
it's it's creating content i think that
it also has to do with building
i'm a huge proponent of just building
search authority through organic and
content production
has to be
that has to happen but i think it's
telling the customer story that's the
most important then the third thing is
just being
uh
very very mindful of the digital
experience
like our you know
what what is the journey that the
prospect is having with your brand with
the website
because if you if you have a great piece
of content out there and they watch it
and they're like wow this is amazing
love it and they go to a free trial and
the free trial errors out or they go try
to talk to a sales rep and the sales rep
doesn't follow up for two days or
whatever you've you you have a break in
the experience and and i say that
i i can say that because i've dealt with
all of that before and we've screwed up
before and we've had times where
an sd an inbound sdr hasn't reached out
to somebody in like five days right and
and those experiences
hurt the perception of what you do and
you've got to be
almost ocd about it so that's kind of
those are the three those are like
content and then and then like digital
experience
like it like it so just to drill down a
bit more into each one
so customer story we're talking about
are we talking about actually
understanding
i guess customer research to a certain
extent whereby typical problems that
people face when they use our product um
yeah why they come to a vendor like ours
those kind of things or is it something
a bit different i don't even think it
has to be that i think you can ask that
but we're doing a great this is a great
example sure
the amount of work and time and energy
for you to set up the show to do all the
scheduling to do the editing it's a lot
of work but
the technology to put another individual
on a screen to interview them whether
you're using stream yard or using zoom
or whoever zencaster whatever you want
to use
is really easy and i don't think that we
take advantage of it as marketers as
much as we should and i'm saying that to
myself as as well as everybody else like
pick three customers and go put them on
zoom and record it and see what you get
and it doesn't have to be talking about
the product i would actually caution
that they they don't have to talk about
the product because who wants who wants
to listen to them talking about the
usage of the product
what people want to listen to is what
pains they have
and whether your product your product
probably solves it great but you also
don't need to do a video that's just a
product pitch
like
everybody does a product pitch
uh it's not differentiated like we
you're always going to be in future wars
i do not care who you are you cannot
tell me that you have a different future
than your competitive set because guess
what they're going to build it in a week
anyway right so
telling their story about their
challenges on a day-to-day basis talking
through like how they deal with the
their the challenges with their team or
managing their payroll or whatever
that's good content and i think that
that helps kind of build
authority for you as a company
because people will come to you to hear
that stuff and it's just so like the
barrier to entry on this stuff is not
high you and i both know this right so
it's it's really up to
the marketer to kind of lead that
got it okay yeah so understanding pains
challenges how they get the job done
yeah i guess how the product helps
they're not they're not like a hey
you're not a talking billboard for my
brand you're a human being that has a
job
and i'm trying to relieve some of the
pain as a business
got it and then are we leveraging that
content
yes
yeah absolutely whether that is
streaming it like you're doing or
whether it is uploading it to the
website whether you have an email
newsletter that you're doing or whatever
i think you leverage it as much as
possible but you got to walk into those
conversations with them knowing that
that's the agreement you could turn it
into a podcast you could turn it into a
blog post
i think the most important part is that
you have the conversation that's the
first step
got it yeah yeah getting those getting
those recorded and speaking to those
customers and was the second point kyle
was that actually leveraging the content
or you mentioning organic search i
wasn't sure exactly what this could be
it could be leveraging that content but
it's also just making sure that you
think through
the organic search component i i feel
like
we as marketers kind of shrug it off
because we've been talking about organic
search for a long time but guess what
most people still don't have any idea
what they're doing right and it's just
such
it's such a um
it's such a powerful lever
to pull to offset some of your other
channels spend yeah people just need to
do it earlier and they're just not
dude i could talk about organic search
for a good hour or so i mean that's
right
that's about as far as my knowledge goes
primarily because we sell it and we do
it all day but i don't know if you're
seeing the same but something that
pisses me off a bit right now especially
is on linkedin every man in this dog is
talking about dementia demand generation
they're talking about dark social as if
it's the b or endl no one's talking
about capturing existing demand through
paid search or organic search it's like
that disappear and it's like dude people
still google stuff if people aren't
familiar with your brand they're gonna
search it on google well i also people
talked about clubhouse for six months
too so i
look i i couldn't tell you what dark
social is i'm kind of i kind of feel bad
even saying that i
you know there's people smarter than me
that are trying to figure it out but
honestly for me it is
what channels are the most efficient to
drive revenue
and you know what you can test some
but
i uh there there it's a very clear goal
in my opinion and organic is the
it's going to continue it will continue
to be a driver it will i don't i mean
the death of organic search is not going
to happen anytime soon we had people
saying that email marketing was going to
die in 2010 and we were all like what
are you and now we have now everybody
has a newsletter like it's 20 it's 12
years later
it's not gonna it's not gonna die
how much of a percentage of marketing
efforts do you think should be placed on
organic search as opposed to other
channels like do you have like a split
car that you say like if you're going to
market you should do x percentage this x
percentage that
depends on where you're at i mean
let's maybe say a startup level startup
level i think it should be
are you talking budget resources
what's the
yeah i mean it's a bit of a vague
question i appreciate that but let's say
you're a startup maybe you had i don't
know quite a slim maybe you had 10 grand
a month
to that you could spend on marketing
yeah i think i think your first hire
should to potentially be a content
marketer
um i just saw at lessonly and we were
very lucky that a man named mitch kazi
was the first marketing person there and
he built the organic search 10 years ago
and
up until the acquisition organic was 30
40 of our total inbound pipe
and that
that is cheap that's cheap and guess
what the conversion rates are ungodly
good because people are searching for it
right and you definitely have to
differentiate your channel spend but man
like
if you do content correctly and he's
he's since gone and started a a company
a software that kind of helps manage
that but
it's uh
it is such a driver of great of great
traffic and revenue
yeah i can i completely agree and where
would you place the remainder
could be it really depends man i i you
could invest in in community you could
invest it in
um paid
you could invest it in
uh
another content marketer
i mean you get content marketing is not
just organic search you're talking about
depending on your sales model you've got
content you need to produce for the
sales team you've got content you need
to produce for the cs team depending
depending on
the scope of what you have to do
content's kind of
i mean it is one of the more important
things if if you
it but it really depends on where you're
at and your growth
sure sure let's talk about a bit of the
um the third point it's a digital
experience
i mean i'm i'm chatting on here on the
solo episodes about websites all the
time and you mentioned things like
making it easy for people to book a demo
and making sure that leads get handed
off to sales so they can respond to them
super quick so customers aren't waiting
and going to a competitor and
when you say digital experience carl
what are some of the things you really
want to drill home when when it ensures
that your digital experience is top tier
and it's actually converting and driving
leads and revenue page load speed
number one as it relates to organic
search you and i both know that seems
cool web vitals yeah yep if you google
things through slow they're gonna
they're not gonna rank you very high
i'll just dumb it down to that
um
i think um so number one is is page load
speed number two is just mobile like can
you read your damn site on a mobile
phone
uh
the third one is um which
i think is
having the right communication channels
for what people want to do like
a chat function as well as a landing
page function
um if you have a free trial
spending a ton of time making sure that
that is very very easy to use okay um
and then the third thing is just make it
fun
like most sites most websites are just
boring as hell
put some put some creativity into it
that's why content's so important like
having copy that is that is enjoyable to
read and and that's why i i always
prefer to look at like more of the b b
to c
or d to c type companies where they've
spent time fully understanding like how
to make the experience enjoyable and
most b2b marketers it's just hard it's
hard to do because this most most
products are complex and it's just
really hard to kind of
have that discussion
yeah yeah um i think i agree with that i
mean i i think b2b companies could learn
a lot from b2c mainly because a lot of
b2b especially in the tech world
companies are firstly scared to show
pricing
so they think oh no if we share our
pricing we can get tons less leads yep
good the leads will be more qualified if
they know what your starting rates are
yeah um whereas b to c like what the
people were just going to buy
online so yes right we're going to have
our price that's right
yeah and it's and it's uh
you know i think that we're right kind
of we're right in like a renaissance of
a lot of those um discussions because
product like growth
a lot of new pro like usage based
pricing models like
there's just a lot of stuff happening
that's really interesting in terms of
just
changing the traditional
sales model
uh that we've experienced in software
for a long time
what are your thoughts so you you raised
something interesting that i talk about
a lot is making it easy for buyers on
your website to get in touch on their
channel of choice so you mentioned like
having chat bots book a demo etc yeah a
lot of people i hear um and a lot of
sites do it just stick people straight
to calendar whether that's calendar
chili pipe or something like that if you
want to request the demo
um do you think that is the way forward
or do you think you should give people
choice or what are your people
give people a choice i i mean
at lesson league we had um we are just
now looking at it for seismic but at
less likely we had like book account but
you know click to book a meeting with an
ae
but it depends if you have five account
executives
then yeah do a calendar like allow
people to book meetings on your ace
calendar if you have 500 reps it's a
little bit different in terms of just
scale that doesn't mean you shouldn't do
it just means you need to be very
mindful of the fact that you have 500
people that all have calendars
half of them pro like
it's just it's really depending on but i
i think you should give
somebody the ability to to
to get in touch with you in the way they
want and make that experience enjoyable
as much as you can
yeah i like that is there any um any big
no-nos that you've seen any anywhere
areas that companies seriously fall
short of time and again when you go on
their sites you don't have to name names
but i just want no no i so one of the
biggest ones in my opinion this is all
the smb uh
owners out there small business owners
out there your your phone number should
be clickable on your site
okay that so i see that way too often
where it's just the phone number and you
gotta figure out how to copy and paste
it using your thumb on your iphone right
it just
click to call yeah uh the second one is
um
making sure
that the
the demo
page or experience is okay on mobile
and i'm
it's it's very hard to do depending on
what the scale you're at but just
simplify what you're asking for my
favorite example which is you know i
don't know what they're doing on the
back end
is uh gong where you just put in your
email
oh nice that's it you just put in your
email and i'm sure they have
some scientists doing lead scoring on
the back end for all this stuff where
you know you're not you're not
inundating anything
just a bunch of mqls but
um
but i i trying to simplify that as much
as possible but but doing it in a way
that's meaningful so you're not screwing
your sales team over either
interesting is gongs like you just put
your email book a time on the calendar
and then they just do the rest is that
is it that no i don't know i well i i
have not signed up for a demo forgot all
i know is that they they you want to see
it put in your email you just put in
your email and you click go and then
yeah yeah just remember you might have a
question
yeah yeah just taking that friction away
as much as possible i guess and
relieving stress for for visitors
interesting
cool so let's get on to probably what i
should have started with but um being a
terrible presenter i didn't really so
let's get to the topic itself why um
talking about why marketers should
actually be responsible for
for sales pipeline for driving revenue
um
and then why they should be bonus on it
so first and foremost on that that front
kyle
marketers bonuses i thought that was
only for sales reps
i i i don't know man i i think that all
employees should be bonus that like some
of their comp should be variable it's
not not a massive amount of it
but i think that it should be tied to a
number now it could be the company-wide
revenue number at lesson league we had
half the team tied to the company-wide
revenue number the rest of the team was
tied to an inbound revenue number but
but that the the details the tactical
aspects of this i think is less
important than the
than the idea which is
marketers should be tasked to driving
pipeline or driving revenue bookings
as as part of their purview because when
you do that
you have the ability to
have a seat at the table at the exact
level or the board level because you're
driving revenue
you have the ability to to ask for more
budget because you're driving revenue
and we talked about the two most
important things marketers should do at
the beginning of this show which is
brand authority and making it easier to
buy the product
the more you make it easier to buy the
product and the revenue goes up and you
source that the easier it is for you to
use funds to drive brand authority
because if you're strictly about demand
gen and growth you're only going to
think about what's the cac to this
channel what should we invest in like
what's driving the most leads and you
you tend to ignore the brand side of
that which is maybe you should be
investing in the onboarding of employees
even though it's a talent function
like that's
for me it is
if you have a revenue or pipeline number
as a marketer you have the ability to
spread the wealth of the brand across
the entire company instead of just kind
of
half half-assing it because you're so
worried about
an influence number or some some other
way to try to justify what you're doing
carl does
marketing stop and when the sales begin
i don't think marketing should stop
you know i
i was talking to somebody yesterday
about the flywheel model
and that's probably the best way to
describe it i
i think it's hard for marketers to try
to think that way but guess what at a
certain point of your business your
customer is actually cheaper to upsell
than getting new people
and if the mark if marketing is not
involved in the entire journey then
you're missing it
because
at a you know you if you own a product
right and you have a software company
and at some point you want to add more
product skus because then you can
cross-sell upsell into your your
customer base your net dollar retention
goes up if marketing marketing is not
thinking about that at all
you got a problem so i don't think
marketing should ever ever ever end i
think that they should be involved from
start to finish and i think they even
should be involved in engagement metrics
mps scores
everything on the back end of the
customer support customer success and
that's where if you own a revenue number
it's just easier to try to think more
holistically as a marketing team
and when
we say
marketers need to be responsible for
driving revenue does that mean that they
need to be responsible for generating
the sales qualified leads that then go
to the sales team that they close or is
there a bit more to it or is it that it
depends it depends on the business model
i think that marketing should have a
percentage of ownership around total
revenue total pipe right
um it really depends on if your
enterprise if you have an enterprise
sales motion or you're you're more of a
high velocity
because then you can you change the
business model depending on what it is
but
yeah mark marketing should be sourcing
leads that the the sales sales can sell
but they should also be thinking about
the entire journey because marketing
should also be
help be responsible for
the generating of upsell cross-sell or
make sure that
a great brand if you're if you're
actually
investing in it rises everybody right so
your retention rate should go up churn
should go down i mean i i think that uh
i think it's a miss when marketing is
only focused on
top or middle of the funnel and they're
not thinking about
employee engagement as well as a great
is another great example um yeah
it's to eventually get siloed if you
don't think holistically
yeah there's a lot to it and cross
selling and upselling is an interesting
one i think something that perhaps gets
neglected yeah um what do you think
which is hilarious to me because it's
the cheapest thing you could possibly do
definitely definitely and do you think
that's more about marketing actually
talking to sales about what customers
actually care about when it comes to
your product what they often ask about
and what you think could be a useful
suggestion whether it's on your site or
somewhere else i don't think i i
honestly it starts with products
because you you know you need to build a
product that you can upsell or you need
to buy the product that you can upsell
or you need to create the service that's
an add-on right
i think it starts with the exact team i
think it means i think product needs to
fully understand what the customer base
needs
and then it's about alignment across
sales marketing customer success account
management
so that we are all moving the same
direction
got it and
to clarify i think you touched on it
just now in terms of actually
giving marketers a bonus so we're saying
that
it's more a case of we have this
company-wide revenue targets whether it
is q2 we need to hit this number if we
hit it then across the board marketing
and getting this percentage bonus
depends depends on the team like at you
know if you have an if you have a really
strong inbound revenue like new bookings
number like unless only half of the
deals closed in quarter so it's really
easy to forecast what an inbound team
should do so that inbound team which
focused basically on everything hitting
the website yep that inbound team was
comped on that inbound revenue number
now the brand team and the customer
marketing team and the events team
was comped on the company-wide revenue
number because they were facilitating
tons of things that touched all parts of
the of the life cycle
got it so making it nice and clear who's
responsible for what yeah
just so you have some skin like skin in
the game and it's not necessarily the
fact that it needs to be a variable it's
that you should own a number
like if you decide not to do a variable
for your marketing team fine but they
should be responsible for a pipeline or
bookings number
yeah that's fair so let's wrap up with
making it easier to buy and we might
have touched on some of this on on the
website and digital experience side of
things but what are the key things we
need to bear in mind carl when it comes
to making it easier for our buyers to
actually buy our ship
uh talk to them on a at least talk to
your customers it's amazing how many
marketers don't and i've been i've i've
done that
because you you have to fully understand
why they buy it and when you when you
transfer that knowledge to the site to
make it easy to read to make it
enjoyable to read to get to their pain
point in a quick way the experience will
be that much more enjoyable
the other thing is
make it as simple as possible for sales
to talk to them especially if you're in
a sales led motion product led's a
completely different conversation but
um
you know if they if they have to talk to
like four people in order to get a demo
then you got a problem
and maybe maybe they don't need to talk
to a person get a demo maybe you put the
demo on the website right
so there's tons of different ways to do
it but i i think that ultimately it's
it's the experience we've kind of talked
i mean we've touched on it the whole
time it's it's it's got to be seamless
and if it's not seamless you need to
have ways to
to fix it
i suppose like you say it all links back
to talking about your customers
understanding why and how and where they
like to buy yeah and if they're telling
you look we don't want to sit through a
20-minute demo with a sales rep we would
rather just see a video on your website
and everyone's saying that i guess stick
the damn video on your website save
yourself some time yeah and uh let
people qualify themselves so that that
kind of
key feedback i guess which kind of links
to a bit of buyer research a bit yeah
just don't be lazy
yeah it's just
the technology that we have as
marketers as business owners
it makes it too easy to do this so the
fact that you have not put a video on
your website
then
i would argue that you gotta you gotta
think through why not because it's just
if you're paying some
i could talk about it this all day long
but it you know don't
if you're paying some agency you know 10
000 a month to update your website
because you haven't moved over to like
wordpress then you've got a bigger
problem right
there's plenty of companies doing that
i'll tell you i know
cool man well yeah carl really enjoyed
the chat man is there anything you want
to you want to wrap things up with on
your end no i mean i i'm always open to
discussions like this so you can hit me
up on linkedin or go to seismic.com um
i'm pretty active on linkedin and
twitter so just hit me up
nice one dude we'll put all of those
links and the site urls over on the show
notes over at businessgrowth.marketing
and with that i want to thank you very
much for coming on the show i really
appreciate it and enjoy the chat thank
you thank you for having me no worries
dude and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast channel or subscribe is
much appreciated and we'll catch you on
the next one for more no bs actionable
web and marketing tips cheers for tuning
in